update(blog)!: Privacy and Security on Mastodon (#3074)
privacyguides/privacyguides.org: blog/posts/mastodon-privacy-and-security.md

---
date:
    created: 2025-07-15T17:00:00Z
categories:
    - Tutorials
authors:
    - em
description: While most social media rely on commercial models harvesting users' data, Mastodon offers an alternative that doesn't seek profits from your data and attention.
schema_type: AnalysisNewsArticle
preview:
  cover: blog/assets/images/mastodon-privacy-and-security/mastodon-cover.webp
---

# Privacy and Security on Mastodon

> ![DESCRIPTION](../assets/images/mastodon-privacy-and-security/mastodon-cover.webp)

Author: ```suggestion
![The Mastodon name and logo over a dark purple background with a large purple padlock icon under it.](../assets/images/mastodon-privacy-and-security/mastodon-cover.webp)
```
